# Alzheimers-Dementia-Disease-classifcation
Alzheimer's Disease is an irreversible, progressive brain disorder that affects the brain cells leading to the slow loss of memory, thinking skills and even the ability to carry out simple tasks. As the disease progresses the affected person can also show significant behavioral changes such as getting worried , angry or violent. About 60% to 80% of the cases of Dementia are caused due to Alzheimer's disease. This disorder mostly affects elder people and symptoms starts showing in their late 50's or in the mid 60's. Though this disorder is irreversible, early detection of the Alzheimer's and Dementia can provide with a better chance of benefitting from the clinical treatments. Usually cognitive decline is diagnosed through MRI scans by experts pathologists. People affected with dementia at early stages show very mild visual differences in the their brain's MRI scans compared with nondemented people. Hence an automated system would aid the  pathologists in finding the minute differences in the scans. The proposed system is  deep learning model capable of differentiating demented and non demented brain scans. The model can classify four classes of scans : Non Demented, Very Mild Demented, Mild Demented , Moderate Demented. The deep learning model used for this project is DenseNet169 which gave an accuracy of 88% and is deployed as a web app using Flask-ngrok package available in python libraries. This application can be scaled to identify the regions in the brain affected due to dementia and be deployed as a mobile application.
